In the first two sessions of the DHSI, my class discussed games such as "Queers in Love at the End of the World", "Thirsty Sword Lesbians", and "Hair Nah". 


"Queers in Love at the End of the World" is a "choose your own adventure" game in which the player has ten seconds to make a set of choices regarding how they want to behave with their lover. The game resists modern norms in the way that there is no completion. No matter how many choices you make in ten seconds, there will never be an ending to the story. The game progresses too fast to truly think about your choice, as time matters more than in most other games. These options illustrate identity issues and force people into a queer perspective. Normatively, queer perspectives are not addressed or are overlooked in games, so "Queers in Love at the End of the World" makes being queer the players' only option.


"Thirsty Sword Lesbians" is a tabletop role-playing game, like "Dungeons and Dragons", in which the players live on a planet where racism is not a social norm. On the game's cover, neither character is explicitly white, which pushes against the prominent portrayal of white main characters in games. During play, characters can create situations that reject the foundation of colonization through the inherent lack of racism. Unlike "Dungeons and Dragons", there are no race-based hierarchies that impact play, allowing for gender and sexual minorities to play a game that prioritizes them.


Finally, "Hair Nah" addresses the sterotyping of Black women and the lack of options to customize a Black avatar. Black women face many microagressions, such as the touching of their hair. The goal of "Hair Nah" is to swat away hands that reach for the main character's hair. The hair and skin tone of the character highly customizable, as there are many options for different Black hairstyles. This game brings to light the lack of diversity and representation for all races and ethnicities in games.


This unit broadened my understanding of how game design and theory interact with humanities topics such as postcolonial theory and the history of race and gender studies. 